
Samin Bahizad- Programming Assignment 2- Huffman programming compression assignment
A reflection page that answers the following questions:
a. How much time did you spend on the assignment?
 I spent 1 week trying understand what I should do and what is huffman coding. I had to watch some videos 
and look at the slides that was provided to figure out the algorithm for it and how I should implement it.
Then, I spent couple of days designing and creating the program. At first I had nine classes and I decided
to have two imbedded classes in my tester class. However, it took me about a week and a half to make sure 
the compression ratio and the new bits were done right using the huffman code. However, I am not sure if I still
used the generics correctly. 
b. Challenges you faced while implementing this assignment?
I had no clue how to do huffman coding and implementing it with priority queue, arrays and heap. So, I had to explore each concept 
again and figure out how to go about it. I ended up using linkedlist to create the HuffmanFrequencyTable and I used min heap for the ArrayHeap class.
 I also realized how I could implement the left (0) and right (1) for the tree and get a decent compression for the bits. I think I am still a little 
confused about the generics but I think I need to explore it separately.
i. What kind of help did you seek to overcome the challenges?
Honestly, I think our seminar for this class was helpful in understanding huffman coding. 
The TA provided videos and practices which helped me understand it.
c. What are some things you did really well on this assignment?
I think my frequency table was done well. I think my code is much clearer to follow comparing to my other projects. 
The encoding and deconding also I think I did well. I believe the only part I struggled was making everything generic and 
I think I should have read the assignment better regarding that part when I started so I would have more time to figure it out but I totally left it to the last minute. 
d. If you could do this assignment over, what would you do differently?
 I think at first I panicked a little, not knowing how huffman works. I think if I were to do this assignment over, I would start by creating structure and reading the 
generics regarding arrayheap, priorityqueue and then focus on Huffman coding. 
e. What do you feel is the purpose of this assignment?

I think the purpose was for us to learn about compression and also test our capabilities with priorityqueue, min heap, learning endcoding 
and decoding for huffman coding, and learning to use our tools like arrays and linkedlist to make the program work successfully to 
compress and reduce the number of bits for the words. This is very important because a lot of times it is used specially to make thing 
more efficent and faster for people to access.  